To generate PDFs.
In our application, we started with a few basic implementation of utility classes and services.
In our application, we actually need tools for translating HTML to PDF and we use the libraries we
included as dependency to our application.
You noticed we use a few few more libraries and we are going to use them in implementation.
So we create some helper packages just to organize our code.
So we have a PDF and service and we create a web for controller part of implementation.
And now we started to have implementing some helper functions.
So let's create first class here.
We name it as HTML two pdf.
Service.
It actually will not be a service as such.
In the understanding of springboard.
We use a static classes here just to to help us to translate one structure to another.
So the first thing we we need to create or we would like to create is to function for creating a PDF
itself to serve PDFs to browser.
We need something related to output streams.
So for our implementation, the return value is supposed to be a binary output stream.
We create a method, create PDF checks and as a parameter we use HTML.
The HTML will come from the chime leave later on, but here for our purposes we have that create PDF
with HTML with a string parameter.
We mark it as a static so we can call it directly without creating HTML to pdf service instance and
then let's out some implementation we use.
Object called I text render.
It's coming in or coming from each HTML render package.
We create a new instance and we use its internal functionality for rendering HTML into kind of a wide
array.
We, we are going to use for streaming things into the browser.
So we first think we need to set content for, for this render.
By content I mean HTML, this is just a blueprint for
for generating a PDF.
So there is some prior knowledge needing needed for HTML and formatting and CSN, so on.
But it's quite a general knowledge.
So we set HTML as a document content who we call something like render layout.
This is doing some internal stuff for basic document formatting.
We create a binary output stream.
This is just an output we are going to use for creating a PDF.
So we call a render create PDF and we provide a bi binary output stream.
So this create pdf method will just send the data to that output stream for for the processing on our
side, there is some exception catching requirements, so we can just apply that to try and catch clauses
as is suggesting.
And then we return this binary output stream as the output from our method.
This is just a very basic implementation.
We will enhance that implementation in future.
But for our basic purposes, this is just it.
It takes HTML and translate HTML into into PDF.
There is a huge support for HTML and CSS formatting from that engine.
So we simply use.
Basic stuff we use for HTML pages as such, and those things will be applied in translated into PDF
data structure.
So we are going to use that method from other places.
We need HTML of course created somehow.
So let's create another class and name it.
PDF generator.
So this.
This is real managed class managed by Springboard.
So we are adding that add service annotation here.
And Dan, in that service, we are going to use a timely template engine.
This is repped by spring template engine object.
So we use a spring template engine object.
Here it's been created by springboard itself.
So we are just auto wiring that into our PDF generator service and now we are creating methods responsible
for rendering HTML for PDF.
For that purpose, we create a helper method.
We provide a title.
This is just a dynamic information we are going to render into our PDF.
And this method is basically responsible for creating HTML from a kind of dynamic context or dynamic
information we are providing to template engine.
So the output would be HTML created by that method.
So to create or to use a spring template engine, we need we need actually two things.
We need HTML file and we need something called contacts.
It's just like a map, it's like a structure.
And it will set a variables here that will be used or rendered inside the template.
This is why we use a spring template engine and it's timely implementation in our case because we don't
need all the static HTML we need to HTML, which is rather dynamic and can render information we are
going to provide to that.
So we we are setting some variables into the context and then we call a process and that process method
is taking a few parameters.
First one is a path to HTML template we are going to use.
And the second parameter is just a context.
This is that map like structure.
So that method is just rendering HTML, applying variables included in context and producing a real
HTML containing all replacements based on the context information and based of course on this template
definition templates
Dwolla and Resources Templates Folder.
We create a PDF Subfolder and HTML five template called Confirmation HTML.
So we have a very basic.
Staff here.
We can just add a few more HTML texts and to a few more timely related texts.
So if you are not familiar with timely, just try to find the documentation.
There is a plenty of full time leaf available internet.
We are going to use a few just a few texts related to Chime Leaf.
And this first one is related to replacing attack content by the variable provided by the context.
So we are we provided a title as a context variable and we are saying replace this age for attack content
with that title value.
So we are going to do so for another variable containing dates date timestamp.
So we have a title and today information coming from our code through the context.
You know that the context variable is such is visible through the context keys.
So we can rely or we can reference the keys in the template.
Now we actually need to create a PDF file itself.
We created that create pdf itax help method.
We provide HTML into that method and to we have actually the method for creating HTML.
So we just have to put those things together.
So here in the PDF Generator Service, we create another method also a public that we're using in controller.
We.
The full signature for that method contains a binary output stream as the output value, and we add
title as an input parameter for that method.
And now we just re-use what we just created.
So we have a HTML two PDF Service Create PDF Index.
This is a method that translates HTML into byte array and we use this render HTML for PDF with title
as a parameter.
So we just actually put together those things.
We, we create a HTML and from the HTML, we create a PDF as a byte era output stream.
So this is basically almost all the background stuff we need in our implementation.
We just follow the logic.
HTML translated into PDF.
HTML can can contain HTML tags and CSS formatting as we will see in other lectures.
And that's all for now as we need.